---
title: How I Manage My Day With Todoist
date: 2020-05-15T12:00:00
tags: post
draft: true
layout: blog
snippet: yum yum yummmety yum yum a yummy yummy yum yum yummmety yum
tagline: yum yum yummmety yum yum a yummy yummy yum yum yummmety yum
---

Start of day:

1. Tick off anything I forgot to tick off yesterday. Sometimes I'll get in a zone and forget to mark things done, or sometimes my day ends abruptly and I just walk away.

2. Reschedule things from yesterday. I do this from the "Today" view, because there's a button that says "Reschedule" that does all the work. I choose "Move to today".

3. Add any scheduled meetings or events I have for the day. This includes workouts I want to get in, which are often dependent on (a) the rest of my schedule and (b) the weather.

3b. I add my meetings/events manually. I tried the google calendar sync and it did too much; all I want is to see my meetings mixed in with the things I have to do. It helps me figure out how much I can get done.

4a. Reprioritize all my items for today. I choose ~3 things I really want to get done, and mark them p1. Meetings don't usually count toward this; I can't say I prioritize meetings consistently. 

4b. I try to keep no more than a few things in each priority level (todoist does p1-p3 for those unfamiliar). I'll bump tasks down in priority if they lose importance. I'm learning that p3 doesn't really mean anything to me; I never get to those.

5. Real talk. What am I not going to get to today, or what do I just not care about today? Reschedule those for tomorrow, or "next week". If they keep getting bumped to "next week", delete them (they'll come back if they need to).

At this point, I should _hopefully have a pretty focused list for the day. 

Throughout the day:

1. I use a label named (at-symbol)active to track what I'm working on *right now*. This helps me remember what to focus on when my brain transitions back into deep-focus mode. I almost always only have one item marked active.

2. When creating new tasks, *estimate the level of focus required*. I use labels for shallow, medium, and deep. When I'm in between meetings and don't have time to get into deep focus, I can pick off shallow things and do them quickly.

3. Use the global shortcut key to quickly add tasks when things come up throughout the day. I didn't know it existed at first, but it's really helpful to not have to switch to the Todoist app when you're in the middle of a conversation and someone reminded you to do something.

4. I assign projects to tasks. I don't use that info often, but sometimes I like to see everything for a specific project. My main projects are: Artsy, personal, workouts, and retro (I often add things I want to talk about at our next retro, scheduled the day of it).

4b. Before the pandemic I had multiple projects related to conferences (planning and/or speaking), but I've become so disinterested during this time that I can't remember the last time I used them. But they were useful when I was using them.

5. I view all my tasks with a custom filter that sorts tasks for today in this order: (at-symbol)active, meetings/events with a scheduled time, then p1-p4.
